[theme song starts]
[computer blipping]
♪ Here we are, going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
[Mrs. Hertz] Ants are social insects,
like termites or like bees.
A single individual is incapable
of any personal initiative.
All of the decisions
are made by the colony.
Ants receive a few simple orders,
such as "search for food,"
"mark the path leading to the food",
and "follow a marked path."
As a result, we might have the impression
that each ant is rather clever,
when in fact, this has more to do
with a collective intelligence.
You mean that an army of Sissis
could be intelligent?
[scoffs] I don't believe it.
-Very funny. Shut up, birdbrain!
-[class laughing]
Settle down please!
As I was saying, thanks to their numbers,
they manage to accomplish
some fairly difficult tasks,
such as finding food or
defending themselves against an attacker.
It would seem that ants even wage
full-scale wars between colonies.
What about killer ants? Do they exist?
Well, yes, maybe in movies, Ulrich.
-[class laughing]
-But there are, in fact, "army ants,"
that destroy everything in their path.
And it's true
that you'd best stay out of their way!
And, do any of those filthy bugs
live around here?
No, fortunately.
They live in South America.
Down there, the phenomenon
is called "Marabounta."
[exhales relieved]
I'm glad I live
in a country where there's no danger!
-[school bell rings]
-[Odd sighs]
[Jeremy sighs]
-[student] Yeah, well, that only really…
-[indistinct conversation]
Saturday's my favorite day!
-No school in the afternoon!
-I like Sundays better!
-[Ulrich] No school at all!
-[Odd nods]
You seem worried, Jeremy.
What's on your mind?
Franz Hopper's notes, Aelita.
Last night, I decoded a really interesting
part on a multi-agent system.
It's a computer application
which follows the principle of an anthill!
What happens is--
Oh, no! Mrs. Hertz already
bored us to tears with all that ant stuff!
Don't you start now!
[all laughing]
Seriously! This time,
I might have found a way to weaken XANA!
Let's meet up at the factory after lunch.
I'll explain everything!
Well, normally I'd love to, but I have
to finish my Italian homework!
See ya!
[nervously] No, I have to practice
for a skateboard competition!
Yumi?
Sorry, I've got swimming
after school. Bye, bye!
What about you, Ulrich?
Are you doing anything later on?
[Ulrich] Yeah, I've gotta be somewhere.
[Jeremy] Oh yeah? Where?
The swimming pool.
Right. Well, since everyone else
has better things to do…
I'll just deal with it myself!
[theme music]
[Jeremy] Okay, here we go!
[knuckles cracking]
[chuckles to self]
[grunts]
[clapping]
[Yumi giggles]
[high pitched groan]
[gasps]
[grunts]
What do you know,
isn't that Ulrich Stern about to dive?
[nods in agreement]
-[board rattles]
-[Ulrich grunts]
[groaning and screaming]
Ulrich!
-[loud splash]
-[Ulrich grunts]
[gasps]
-[Yumi] Oh…
-[both boys grunt]
[Ulrich coughs]
Out of the way! Let me through!
Huh?
[girl] Is he okay?
Is he breathing? Is he hurt?
Oh, call someone! He looks like he…
He needs mouth-to-mouth.
Get out of the way!
-[girl 2] Is he breathing?
-[girl 3] I don't know!
[groans]
-[Yumi gasps]
-[Jim] Let me through!
I've got a first-aid certificate!
[Jim grunts]
-[Jim clears throat]
-[Yumi giggles]
-[Ulrich groans]
-[Jim inhales]
[Ulrich groans]
[groans]
-There you go! Good thing I was here, huh?
-[Ulrich coughing]
[coughing]
Are you okay?
[shrugs]
[Jeremy] Now for the moment of truth!
Everything seems to be working.
[digital beeping]
Transfer prototype!
[computer bleeping]
Scanner!
Virtualization!
[grunts]
Come on!
[substance gurgling]
Yes! Franz Hopper, you're a genius!
And so am I!
XANA and his monsters
better watch out now!
[chuckles]
[theme music]
-[Kiwi barks]
-[door creaks]
What's the matter?
Nothing.
[tense music]
[phone rings]
-[Odd] Jeremy?
-[Ulrich shrugs]
[Jeremy] I have
something amazing to show you guys!
Can you meet me at the factory?
-Okay! Soon as possible!
-[Kiwi barks]
Great! And don't forget
to go and pick up Aelita!
Okay!
Jeremy's called
a meeting at the factory!
You coming?
Not in the mood. I'd rather be by myself.
Come on!
-If you don't come, he'll get mad.
-Leave me alone!
Okay, suit yourself.
-Both of you stay here.
-Both of us?
Yeah!
You and your bad mood!
[grunts]
[buzzing]
[hatch mechanism whirring]
There you are! But where's Ulrich?
He's sulking.
I don't know what his problem is.
[Jeremy sighs]
What's this program?
It's Marabounta! My own creation!
And what does it do, exactly?
It's a multi-agent system,
that functions according
to the same principle as an anthill.
But instead of ants,
we have these little spheres,
whose mission is to search out
and destroy XANA's monsters!
I get it! While the monsters
are being wiped out by your ants,
XANA leaves us alone on Lyoko. Is that it?
-You guessed it!
-Hey, that's great!
[Aelita] But what happens if there's
a real bug in the program?
[Jeremy] Impossible!
Remember Franz Hopper was a genius!
Yeah, that's right! What do you say
we go to Lyoko to check it out?
If this thing really works,
nothing can happen to us!
You read my mind, Odd!
Go to the scanner room. I'll transfer you.
If there's the slightest problem,
I'll pull the plug! Promise.
[sighs]
Transfer Aelita.
Transfer Odd.
Scanner Odd.
Scanner Aelita.
[computer beeping]
Virtualization!
[both grunt]
[Jeremy] You guys are South
of the Marabounta.
Take the path to your right.
Sorry, but you'll have to go
without vehicles.
I don't have enough machine resources
to bring them up.
And watch out for the bad guys!
XANA may have his hands full,
but you never know!
Roger, general!
[both panting]
[Jeremy] A Krab at two o'clock.
[Jeremy] Follow it. It's headed
in the right direction.
[mechanical footsteps running]
[both panting]
[light music]
Have you been crazy
about Ulrich for a long time?
about Yumi for a long time?
Forever.
[Sissi] You've only been here
for a few months.
Don't you believe in destiny
with a capital "D"?
Two people who have never met,
but who are made for each other?
No, I'm not really into fairytales
or cheap magazine-style romance stories.
I've had a crush on Ulrich
since elementary school.
I want to go out with him.
That's all there is to it.
If it weren't for that stuck-up Yumi, I…
[Yumi gasps]
If it weren't for
that big shot Ulrich, I'd…
[both chuckle]
Shall we go? I'm getting cold!
[sighs]
Target dead ahead!
[Odd] Jeremy? I've got it!
I can see the Marabounta.
[Jeremy] Well? What's it like?
[Odd and Aelita gasp]
Pretty scary!
[thud]
-[lasers blasting]
-[substance gurgling]
-[laser blasts]
-[shrieks]
[lasers blasting]
[substance gurgling]
[laser blasts]
I never thought I'd say it,
but I really feel sorry for XANA!
I'll uplink you a visual, Jeremy!
[beeping]
[Jeremy] It's working even better
than I thought it would!
[Odd] If you want my opinion, Einstein,
you've invented a nasty piece of work.
[chuckles]
[growling]
[shrieks]
[substance gurgling]
Jeremy, I've seen enough.
I want to come in!
Yeah, okay, Aelita. I'll bring you back.
Head south-west.
There's a tower nearby.
Got it!
[Aelita gasps and yelps]
[Odd hums]
[Jeremy] Odd! Aelita! What's going on?
Answer me!
-[Aelita gasping]
-[lasers blasting]
Laser arrow!
[lasers blasting]
[Jeremy] Odd! Say something!
[Odd] Your Marabounta seems
to have it in for us!
This is no time for jokes! I programmed
to attack XANA's monsters only!
[Odd] Well, could you also program
some eyeglasses for it then?
[gasps]
This can't be right!
Did you do something special?
[Odd] No, except for firing
a few Laser arrows.
That wasn't the smartest thing to do!
[Aelita] Jeremy, Odd didn't have a choice.
The Marabounta was coming after me!
[gasps]
How can that be?
Unless…
[computer keys clatter]
Oh, Jeremy, idiot!
It's my fault!
It's the virus implanted in Aelita.
The Marabounta thinks
she's one of XANA's monsters!
[Odd] Great! Nice work, Frankenstein!
I thought we had nothing to worry about.
[Jeremy] I was wrong!
Okay, head for the tower.
I'll kill the program!
[bleeping and beeping]
Oh, no!
Oh, no. Oh! No!
-No!
-[Odd] Whenever you're ready, Jeremy!
I can't deactivate the program!
It seems that the Marabounta
doesn't want to die!
The Marabounta has become autonomous.
It'll submerge everything
and everyone in its path!
I'll brief Yumi and Ulrich.
Come on, Ulrich!
What are you doing? Will you pick up!
[phone ringing]
Wow! That guy can really pick
the right day to sit and sulk!
[phone ringing]
[Yumi] Jeremy?
Huh? What are you talking about?
What do you mean a "Chattanooga"?
Marabounta!
I can't explain now!
Just get here ASAP!
Odd and Aelita are in big trouble!
Ulrich's at school, but I can't reach him!
I don't know what's going on with him!
[Yumi] I do. I'll get him
and we'll be right over.
[theme music]
[Odd] Hey, Jeremy.
I think we've lost your monster
but now we're kind of lost ourselves.
I… Uh…
Sorry, guys!
Take off in the direction…
Due West! The Marabounta
hasn't hit that sector yet.
In the meantime,
I'll find a way to stop it!
Don't blow it! I don't want
to end up as chewing-gum!
[door creaks]
[sighs]
I was sure I'd find you here.
What I need is for everybody
to leave me alone.
Especially you!
Hey, if you want to make a fool
of yourself in front of everyone,
don't blame me!
No one asked you to spy on me at the pool!
Spy on you? You've got to be kidding!
I just happened to be there, okay?
Oh, yeah. Right!
What an incredible coincidence!
Anyways, do you mind
shelving your ego for a minute?
Odd and Aelita need us on Lyoko!
[sighs]
[both gasp]
Jeremy? Bad news.
The Marabounta got here first!
-The Tower's unreachable.
-[Aelita gasps]
This won't take me long.
I'll find a way to stop it, I promise!
And Ulrich and Yumi are on their way!
At least… I hope they are.
[grunts and yells]
[groans]
No, it can't be!
Hopper! Help me out a little!
-[lasers blasting]
-[Aelita gasps]
[Odd gasps]
[Aelita yelps]
[substance gurgling]
[lasers blasting]
[Jeremy] If this goes on any
longer, all of Lyoko will be destroyed!
[Aelita yelps]
-[Aelita yelps]
-[substance gurgling]
[Aelita gasps]
[Jeremy] Careful!
XANA's sending a monster!
[Aelita yelps]
[Aelita gasps]
-[Aelita yells]
-[thud]
That's crazy!
That Krab just sacrificed itself for you!
I don't get it.
That's weird.
I think I understand.
XANA knows that he can't let Aelita die.
He needs her memory!
[Odd] Hey, what's the matter with them?
They're protecting me!
[Jeremy] Aelita's right. Use them
as allies to defeat the Marabounta.
[lasers blasting]
[Jeremy] Ah! At last!
But where's Ulrich?
Alone with his pride.
Wanna tell me what's going on?
No time! Go straight there.
Odd, Aelita,
hang in there!
The cavalry's coming!
[lasers blasting]
[Odd] Laser arrow.
[beam zooming]
[heavy lasers blasting]
[gasps]
[Yumi grunts]
[Yumi howls]
-[Aelita] No, Yumi!
-[crash]
Not them!
The Marabounta's the one to go after!
[Yumi gasps and groans]
What is that horrible thing?
[Odd] One of Jeremy's bright ideas!
Luckily, XANA is here to give us a hand!
The world has turned upside down!
[Yumi howls]
[crash]
[theme music]
-[knocking]
-Yeah.
Hi. I came to see how you were.
Yeah, right. When you have a good chance
to humiliate the competition
you might as well go for it.
Did I miss something here?
What's your problem?
-You're my problem!
-No.
That'd be too easy, Ulrich. Let me
tell you what's wrong around here.
My being around Yumi
forces you to ask yourself a question.
A tough question that you can't answer!
Here's a piece of friendly advice.
Go and talk to Yumi! From the heart!
Or else, one day, I will!
And then, I really will be your problem!
[sighs]
[Aelita] How you doing, Jeremy?
I'll never make it.
I'm really the biggest loser
ever to walk on the face of the Earth.
[Aelita] You couldn't have known
that my virus would be a problem.
Your virus. Virus! What if…
[excited]
Yeah, well…
That ought to work!
-[lasers blasting]
-[Yumi and Odd grunting]
[Yumi howls]
[panting]
-[lasers blasting]
-[grunts]
-[mechanical footsteps]
[substance gurgling]
[mechanical footsteps]
[yelps and grunts]
Whatever you do, don't let it make
any headway. It'll attack from the rear.
[lasers blasting]
You're a really good combat general, Odd!
It takes strategy, you know?
The only thing stupider
than a Blok, is two Bloks!
[Yumi howls]
Jeremy, move it.
Things are getting a bit out of hand.
[Jeremy] Hey, I'm doing my best, guys!
[lasers blasting]
[Jeremy] I think I've found a way
to destroy the Marabounta.
Odd, I inserted a code for a
deadly virus in one of your arrows.
If you hit a sphere with it,
the whole colony will be infected, but--
No sweat.
[Jeremy] Wait! It'll only work
if you hit the first sphere,
the one I transferred to Lyoko
that created all the others!
It's at the heart of the Marabounta.
Great! So how am I supposed
to reach the heart of the Marabounta?
On a camel's back?
[machine huffs]
[Odd] Hmm?
[Krab huffs]
Odd, it's the only way.
[Odd] Charge!
Jeremy, would you mind telling me how
to find the right sphere in all this mess?
[Jeremy] I'll guide you.
Whoa!
[grunts]
-[Yumi grunts]
-[Aelita yelps]
No!
Aelita!
[Yumi howls]
[Yumi grunts]
[groans]
[Aelita gasps] Yumi!
[Yumi gasps]
[groaning]
[groans]
[Aelita gasps]
[gasps]
Jeremy!
[grunts]
[groans and grunts]
[Jeremy] You're almost there, Odd!
I'll give you the exact location
of the first sphere!
That's okay. I think I've found it!
[Ulrich grunting]
[Jeremy] You've only got one shot!
[groans]
[laser arrow blasts]
-[explosion]
-Yeah!
[Aelita and Ulrich gasp]
[Odd grunts and chuckles]
[Ulrich] Hmm?
[Aelita whimpers and sighs]
[exhales relieved]
[Aelita] Look!
[shrieks]
Don't buy it, Aelita.
Ulrich's right. The Marabounta is gone,
but XANA and his monsters
are still our worst enemy.
He wants your memory at all cost.
[Ulrich gasps]
[theme music]
[Odd] Next time you want to play
at being a mad scientist,
clue us in a little more first, okay?
Well, I really tried to
but you all had better things to do.
But you're right, Odd.
'Cause this time,
I was a big zero from start to finish!
You found a way out of it, Jeremy.
That's what counts.
[giggles]
Well, if it isn't the whole crew.
Well, if it isn't the brainless frog face.
[laughs sarcastically]
You crack me up.
By the way Ulrich, are you feeling better
after what happened at the pool?
[Ulrich] Cool it, Sissi.
[theme music]
[Odd] So, what happened
at the pool, Ulrich?
Come on, out with it!
[both] Nothing!
[Odd] What?
[snickers]
[theme music]